# x-form 
It is a collection of python and bash tools to calculate density profile and xray-form factors from lipid bilayers. 

## include 
The following is only a general description of each tools listed in this folder. Each tools has more functionality supported. For further information, please run the code with -h to see the helpdoc. 

* densityv1.py:
	
	calcualtes the density along z-axis of a lipid bilayer. The number density of each group specified in `-n run.ndx` file is calculated. 
	
	You need have xdrfile library for python in your PYTHONPATH evironment variable for the code to work. This library is not included but can be downloaded from [GROMACS website] (http://www.gromacs.org/Downloads)
	
	This code can use bilayer center of mass as absolute reference point for each time frame thus elimate the bug in g_density that can not work for system with pressure coupling.

* mk_ndx_sim.py:
	
	takes a gromacs .gro file and create index file ( *.ndx ) for each atom type. 
	
	ouput index file can be used as input for densityv1.py  

* sim2dens.py:
	
	takes density file ( number density ) generated from densityv1.py and converts it to electron density , charge density, and etc by adding a proper weight to each atom type. 

* mk_e.sh, mk_e_slipid.sh:
	
	takes a gromacs lipid topology file and create the electron weigth for each atom type. Currently, we support GROMOS and Slipid force field .
	
	output can be used as input for sim2dens.py

* formFactorv1.py:
	
	takes the electron density profile generated by sim2dens.py and perform fourier transform on it to generate x-ray form factor profile. 
